Chiasmes

- Tu ne connais personne mais tout le monde te connaît.
- L’argent n’a pas de morale, mais la morale est qu’il faut de l’argent.
	-> Money has no morals, so the moral is to get money.
- Remplaçons le partage du monde par le monde du partage. C Lelouch
- Il avait des amis qui étaient ses ennemis, des ennemis qui deviendraient ses amis - Les Jardins de la Lune
- Future thinkers or thinkers of the future
- Je croyais à un mode de vie [mais] ce n’était qu’une vide à la mode » Vernon Subutex 2, p.191
- L’évidence du naturel et le naturel de l’évidence, Thierry Blöss
- Les hommes vivent chez les femmes et les femmes travaillent chez les hommes (https://www.binge.audio/podcast/les-couilles-sur-la-table/des-chaussettes-et-des-hommes)
- Je ne sais pas si Macron a lu *Le Deuxième Sexe*, mais je sais que *Le Deuxième Sexe* a lu clair dans Macron et tous ses prédécesseurs. (Le génie lesbien, Alice Coffin)
- « They told me there wasn’t enough room on the road for the Universe, and I told them the universe is my road. » SU, S03E11
- Un amateur d’écriture n’est pas toujours un écrivain amateur !
- “She never taking her eyes off him, je never taking his eyes off her.” The Priory of the Orange Tree, p.159 
- « There’s a teen who loves the hate, but also hates the love ! » SU, S04E18
- The key is not to do what you want, but rather to want what you have to do.
- You both love me and I love both of you. SU


https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0142000574/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0142000574&linkCode=as2&tag=6mart05-20



https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/chiasmus
To stop too fearful, and too faint to go 
Oliver Goldsmith 
Beauty is truth, truth beauty,—that is all Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.
John Keats 
Do not live to eat, but eat to live.

https://literarydevices.net/chiasmus/
Never let a Fool Kiss You or a Kiss Fool You.
You forget what you want to remember, and you remember what you want to forget.
It is not the oath that makes us believe the man, but the man the oath.
Love as if you would one day hate, and hate as if you would one day love.
Bad men live that they may eat and drink, whereas good men eat and drink that they may live.
But O, what damned minutes tells he o’er Who dotes, yet doubts; suspects, yet strongly loves.
His time a moment, and a point his space.
Do I love you because you’re beautiful? Or are you beautiful because I love you?
(?)Divine compassion visibly appeared, Love without end, and without measure Grace…
Lust is what makes you keep wanting to do it, Even when you have no desire to be with each other. Love is what makes you keep wanting to be with each other, Even when you have no desire to do it.
Some have an idea that the reason we in this country discard things so readily is because we have so much. The facts are exactly opposite – the reason we have so much is simply because we discard things so readily
The instinct of a man is to pursue everything that flies from him, and to fly from all that pursues him.
When religion was strong and science weak, men mistook magic for medicine; Now, when science is strong and religion weak, men mistake medicine for magic.
Cannon entertains that theory because that theory entertains Cannon.

https://literaryterms.net/chiasmus/
-> Lots of chiasmi in Karal Marx’ books ?
Don’t sweat the petty things, and don’t pet the sweaty
Live simply so that others might simply live.
In the pre-capitalist stages of society, commerce rules industry. In capitalist society, industry rules commerce.
The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
The things you own end up owning you.
You can take the tiger out of the jungle, but you can’t take the jungle out of the tiger.

https://examples.yourdictionary.com/chiasmus-examples.html
By day the frolic, and the dance by night.
But many who are first will be last, and the last will be first.
Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.
Just because you’re born in the slum does not mean the slum is born in you.
We were elected to change Washington, and we let Washington change us.
He knitted a good deal, he would tell you if you asked him, to keep himself from smoking, adding that he also smoked a good deal to keep himself from knitting.
Men always want to be a woman's first love; women want to be a man's last romance.
The right to bear arms is slightly less ridiculous than the right to arm bears.
A teacher might say, ‘Incidentally, that’s a chiasmus.’ And the chiasmus might volley back, ‘That’s a teacher, incidentally.’
I'm not a writer with a drinking problem, I'm a drinker with a writing problem.
It's not the men in your life that count, it's the life in your men.
If you can’t be with the one you love, love the one you’re with.
Laid back, with my mind on my money and my money on my mind.
We do what we like and we like what we do.

https://smartblogger.com/chiasmus-examples/
And these tend inward to me, and I tend outward to them
The mind is its own place and, in itself can make a heaven of hell or a hell of heaven.
Pleasure’s a sin, and sometimes sin’s a pleasure.
For those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.
Laura, I don’t hate you because you’re fat. You’re fat because I hate you.
Let us never negotiate out of fear, but let us never fear to negotiate.
Mankind must put an end to war – or war will put an end to mankind.
It is not titles that honor men, but men that honor titles.


http://rhetoric.byu.edu/Figures/C/chiasmus.htm
It is boring to eat; to sleep is fulfilling
Integrity without knowledge is weak and useless, and knowledge without integrity is dangerous and dreadful.
Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!


https://www.softschools.com/examples/grammar/chiasmus_examples/138/
She went to church, but to the bar went he.
The day was dawning, but setting was his life.
You can take the girl out of the country, but you can't take the country out of the girl.
Her life was full of children, and her children full of life.
Suit the action to the word, the word to the action.
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove, whether love lead to fortune, or else fortune love.
Foul is fair and fair is foul.
A good man is hard to find, and a hard man is good to find.


https://7esl.com/chiasmus/
Love as though you will sometime hate, hate as though you will sometime love.
She has all my love; my heart is hers.
We walked tiredly along the path, along the road we tiredly wandered.
She loved a good cup of coffee; a cup of coffee was loved by her.
It is nice to be important but it is more important to be nice.
Home is where the great are small and the small is great.
Love makes time pass and time makes love pass.
He lives to work, he doesn’t work to live.
I said what I meant because I meant what I said.
Change facts to suit theories, don’t change theories to suit facts.
Do as I say not as I do.

https://www.examples.com/business/chiasmus-examples-in-literature-pdf.html
I have taken more out of alcohol than alcohol haas taken out of me.	
The value of marriage is not that adults produce children, but that children produce adults.
My job is not to represent Washington to you, but to represent you to Washington.
If black men have no rights in the eyes of white men, of course the whites can have non in the eyes of the blacks.
Wash me from my sin and from my guilt cleanse me.
The art of progress is to preserve order amid change, and to preserve change amid order.
They don’t care about how much you know until they know how much you care.



http://sixminutes.dlugan.com/chiasmus/
Let us preach what we practise — let us practise what we preach.
Each increase of tension has produced an increase of arms; each increase of arms has produced an increase of tension.
We don’t mistrust each other because we’re armed; we’re armed because we mistrust each other.
People the world over have always been more impressed by the power of our example than by the example of our power.
In politics there are some candidates who use change to promote their careers, and there are those like John McCain who use their careers to promote change.
I wasted time, and now time doth waste me.
I am stuck on Band-Aid, and Band-Aid‘s stuck on me.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
Quitters never win and winners never quit.
I’d rather have lots of love and little money, instead of lots of money and little love.
A good audience listens to the speaker. A great speaker listens to the audience.
In middle age, parents take care of their children; in old age, children take care of their parents.
I give up when all is lost, but all is lost only when I give up.


https://literarydevices.com/chiasmus/
I went to the doctor five days ago. Yes, last week I went to the hospital.
He told me he isn’t coming back. He’s not returning, he said.
She disappeared for just a moment. In just a second she’ll reemerge.
We ate all the leftovers so quickly. Speedily we polished off all that food.
You should get a pet to help you with your anxiety. That worry could be cured by a dog.

https://www.eng-literature.com/2021/07/chiasmus-definition-characteristics-examples.html

…

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimetabole

There is no 'way to peace'. Peace is the way.
In America, you can always find a party. In Soviet Russia, Party always finds you!
The great object of [Hamlet's] life is defeated by continually resolving to do, yet doing nothing but resolve.
He was just the man for such a place, and it was just the place for such a man.
He was just the man for such a place, and it was just the place for such a man.
I'm hoping that somebody pray for me, I'm praying that somebody hope for me.

https://www.reddit.com/r/Chiasmus/
Be fearful when others are greedy, and greedy when others are fearful.
You don't have to talk about what you know, but you have to know what you're talking about.
Traditionally, satire has comforted the afflicted while afflicting the comfortable.

https://www.reddit.com/r/Poetic_Alchemy/comments/gza2gl/teaching_tuesday_contest_chiasmus/
Asleep go the lights, the darkness awakens
Momentary wealth leads to impoverished epoques.
Memories sharp pushed aside by fading reveries.
Limited permutations allow for variations infinite.
Reality displaces memory, but memory conjures reality.
To live is to cry, and to cry is to live.
But there is nothing I can do I can only dance to my death, and live in death's dance.
i wear my heart, stuck all over with pins like a voodoo doll, on my sleeve. And on my sleeve, my heart is beating.
When rising smoke and ash does fall
To theive and fib, to lie and loot
You're good from afar, and I followed your star. Up close - far from good - emberlight of cigar.
Your name is a hardboiled sweet that I roll around between my teeth. The name that's yours, on my tongue;
I become void and void becomes me
Let's discuss doughnuts and absent doughnut holes wholly rounded by a circle whole confectionary smut
Now you knew my body more than I Yet I never knew you
I loved to tell you that I hated you and I would hate to tell you that I love you.
Home is where the heart is, but their hearts are not at home.

Falling leaves may end, when the end of May leaves Fall.
Leaves baring the branches as the branches bore the leaves.
Ghostly mists depart, the departed miss their ghosts.
As they leave the leaves they say.
“We will see you again at the end of the day
When life becomes death, and death becomes life. The easiest route is seldom Right When day hits the night, We will envy your plight. Of living on Earth”.
But Earth only lives on a grey Autumn day.

How does the world create a backwards man
Who not only sins but doesn't see the sin
The man must be a witness to and victim of hypocrisy
Where good is bad and bad is good
His monks are vain and kind are his slavers
Police abuse him but he's cherished by the gangs
The worlds truth was never true to him
His teachers see him as a threat and his value is seen by the kingpin
Why would he live by society's rules and not
steal and cheat and rat and abandon
When the criminal is rich and the poor are honorable
White is black and black is white and together they make grey
How do we expect the grey man to go anywhere but backwards?


It was not so much a matter of having power to do a thing as it was having the power to stop things from being done to you.
But shall I live in hope? All men I hope live so.
Your manuscript is both good and original, but the part that is good is not original, and the part that is original is not good.	
Starkist doesn't want tuna with good taste, Starkist wants tuna that tastes good!
He saved others; himself he cannot save.
It’s good to be lucky, but it’s lucky to be good.
He went to the country, to the town went she.
He came in triumph and in defeat departs.
And singing still dost soar and soaring ever singest. We live to learn and learn to live.
No one can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other.
I am a man. Or am I ?
Baby, you've been so distant from me lately. And lately, don't even want to call you baby.
What warning has no end and ends without warning?
"Capital employs labour. Even this relation in its simplicity is a personification of things and a reification of persons". -Karl Marx
"Such is the aestheticizing of politics, as practiced by fascism. Communism replies by politicizing art." -Walter Benjamin
"Consciousness of desire and the desire for consciousness together and indissolubly constitute that project which in its negative form has as its goal the abolition of classes and the direct possession by the workers of every aspect of their activity" -Guy Debord
What is meaningful brings joy and what brings joy is meaningful.